# Result Analysis of Sem 5 NSUT IT Branch

Note: I have not provided the dataset for privacy reasons. However I can share the structure of the dataset after cleaning and proper aligning.
![]

## Steps undertaken to perform this analysis
**Step 1** : Cleaning and aligning the data well. Results are published in pdf format, so first step involved converting to excel file, properly aligning the columns and then exporting as a csv file

**Step 2** : Replacing missing values with default values.

**Step 3** : Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) begins. I tried to find out the subject wise and overall SGPA distributions.

**Step 4** : Plotting the results using matplotlib library offered by Python. All plots generated are included in this repository.

**Step 5** : Finally I was able to generate a ranklist of all students of the IT department on the basis of overall SGPA.


## Essence of this project
This project helped me apply data science concepts in a real world problem. It also improved upon my experience with matplotlib, plotting various types of graphs like bar graphs, histograms, pie charts and boxplots.

Insights generated by this project can be utilized by subsequent batches of students to gauge which subjects are harder in general and tougher to score good GPA in, so they can spend more time in these subject. Also in case of elective subjects, students can choose to avoid subjects whose result is not at par as compared to other subjects that have a far better result.

This analysis can also help the professors and college administration to figure out where the students are lagging behind, so that more efforts can be made in these aspects in all future batches to improve overall performance.
